.. CSVSee documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Fri Aug 20 15:59:31 2010.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

CSVSee
======

You are reading the documentation for CSVSee_, a tool for manipulating and
visualizing data in comma-separated (CSV) files.

.. _CSVSee: http://www.automation-excellence.com/software/csvsee


Motivation
----------
This tool was originally developed to help with analyzing test results coming
from Grinder_ and Performance Monitor. It was partly inspired by `Grinder
Analyzer`_, which serves a similar purpose in a more specific domain.

.. _Grinder: http://grinder.sourceforge.net/
.. _Grinder Analyzer: http://track.sourceforge.net/


Features
--------
* Generate graphs of just about any numerical data, particularly those having timestamps
* Match one or more CSV column names with regular expressions
* Plot the top ``N`` data sets, by average or peak value within each column
* Automatic color-coding when graphing multiple columns
* Display graphs in an interactive viewer with zooming/panning capability
* Export graphs to a ``.png``, ``.svg`` or ``.pdf`` file
* Customizable line styles, title / axis labels, and timestamp formats
* Automatic guessing of date/time format


License
-------
This software is open source, under the terms of the `simplified BSD license`_.

.. _simplified BSD license: http://www.opensource.org/licenses/bsd-license.php


Installation
------------

You'll need Python_ before doing anything else. Most Linux distributions already
have this installed, but you can use this to check::

    $ which python
    /usr/bin/python

Install pip_ too::

    $ sudo apt-get install python-pip

To use the graphing features of CSVSee, you'll need NumPy_ and matplotlib_.
These require some development headers in order to install properly; on Ubuntu,
this should work::

    $ sudo apt-get install python-dev libpng-dev

Then::

    $ pip install -r req.txt

If you want to install an official release, first download one from the
`downloads page`_, and extract it somewhere.

Then, open that directory in a terminal and run::

    $ sudo python setup.py install

Or use pip_::

    $ sudo pip install .

One advantage of using ``pip`` is that you can uninstall later like so::

    $ sudo pip uninstall CSVSee

If you'd rather use a copy of the latest development version, clone it using
Git_::

    $ git clone git://github.com/a-e/csvsee.git

then install as before using ``setup.py`` or ``pip``.

.. _downloads page: https://launchpad.net/csvsee/+download
.. _Git: http://git-scm.com/
.. _pip: http://pypi.python.org/pypi/pip
.. _Python: http://python.org/download/
.. _matplotlib: http://sourceforge.net/projects/matplotlib/files/matplotlib/matplotlib-0.99.1/
.. _NumPy: http://sourceforge.net/projects/numpy/files/


Usage
-----
The primary frontend script is ``csvs``. Run this from the command-line to see
usage notes and integrated help, or see the documentation below:

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    csvs


API
---
All of the supporting libraries are in a module called ``csvsee``. You can
read the autogenerated documentation here:

.. toctree::
    :maxdepth: 2

    csvsee/index

